[ in Japanese ]
Hello and welcome to another working-from-home episode of No Such Thing as a Fish,
a weekly podcast coming to you from four undisclosed locations in the UK.
My name is Dan Schreiber, I am sitting here with Anna Chazinski, Andrew Hunter Murray,
and James Harkin. And once again, we have gathered around the microphones with our
four favourite facts from the last seven days and in a particular order, here we go.
Starting with you, James. Okay, my fact this week is that if you were to take a corn on the
cob and remove each kernel in a row while saying she loves me and then she loves me not,
then she will always love you not. Right? No. How many, that's quite a long version of that game,
I'm guessing. Well, it's row by row, right? Row by row, yes, so it's not that long. It's long
and disappointing for any lovers doing it. There's no jeopardy, it's just guaranteed lose. There's
an argument that it's not quite as romantic as sitting wistfully in a field taking petals off
a flower, just going to your fridge and grabbing an old corn on the cob. But this is basically,
I mean, the fact is that there are even number of kernels on every row of a corn on the cob.
The best way to check it yourself is to get a corn on the cob from your fridge or your supermarket,
cut it in half width ways and then look at the sliced parts and you'll get a circular cross-section
with the inside of the cob surrounded by corn kernels. And then if you count those kernels,
they'll always be an even number. Sometimes it's kind of difficult to see because you might have a
little runty kernel where the bigger ones have kind of squished it out of the way, you know,
like if you lose a tooth and everything kind of squishes back in that direction. But it always
be true, always an even number and it's due to the way that corn on the cob's grow.
And by the time you finish this process, not only did she love you not, but she's had enough time
to escape as far away from you as possible. That's true. It's even possible to peel off a row.
I really wanted to try this, but I, so I hate sweet corn and I've never touched corn on the cob,
so I don't know if a row can come off all in one row. No, but like I say, if what you do is cut your
corn on the cob in half, then you'll be able to see the cross-section and you'll see the row itself
and then you can just pluck off the individual kernels if you want. So you just have to say she loves
me not, and she loves me really slowly, as you're blocking each individual kernels. Yeah.
I mean, if you start with she loves you not, then she loves me, then she loves me not, then you're fine.
But it's just basically there's an even number. I mean, what a bargain I say.
And it's because of the way that they grow. If you were to look at it, you'll find most of them
have like 14, 16, 18, something like that. Yeah. And apparently this is just a big old,
well-known thing that people who were into corn or growing corn, you know, know about. And it used to
get hit the news. I think sometimes it still does. It hits the news if someone finds an odd numbered
kernel. Like I found a newspaper report from 1949. It was sort of local rather than national news,
but it was all capital letters. Freak ear reported in an Iowa newspaper. Wow. So did you know,
so I read a piece, I was trying to find out other, you know, secrets of corn. And I read a
Huffington Post piece, which has had lined five myths about corn. You should stop believing.
Oh, okay. Well, lower those expectations. They're much less juicy than I would have thought,
because one of them is that corn is unhealthy, which I didn't think it was. I was firmly
at the opinion it was mostly most of my days vegetables. Better than the magnetum. Yeah,
better than a magnetum, exactly, although kind of a similar shape. But one of the myths is that we
can't digest sweet corn. Oh, I believe that. So you can't digest it. I've seen it. I've seen it, Andy.
Well, okay, here we go. Well, it does have large amounts of insoluble fiber, but you can't
digest the inside. So the inside is pure starch. So you digest that, but the outside is just a husk
of cellulose, which is not digestible. So it looks like you haven't digested it, but you have.
Can I just say that if you're taking your feces and taking out the corn kernels saying she loves me
and she loves me not, you might get lucky and have an odd number, but I think it's unlikely you'll get
lucky in any other ways. Well, you haven't heard how I met my wife. That's very cool. Andy,
when you say the outside of the yellow skin, I guess, bit is made of cellulose, so you don't digest it,
but presumably the ones that come out the other end of the bits that you didn't chew. It's not like
you've digested the inside and then you've remade the perfect shape of a piece of sweet corn,
but with just the edge, right? No, no, no, no, you're right. If you chew it with your teeth and obliterate
the yellow outside, you won't be able to notice that, although it will still be there because that's
the fiber, which is not soluble, which come out, but you won't be able to see it. But if you're
shutting sweet corn, then it'll all go straight through you. Yeah, absolutely, yeah. I don't know,
people do that. I don't eat it. If it came in shots, I think you might eat it. Yeah, you're right.
You know me so well. If you found an odd numbered Cobb and you were a slave in America in the 19th
century, you could earn your freedom. Apparently, this was, well, there was one instance of this. It was
in an 1838 farmer's cabinet magazine and it said that a slave owner said to his slaves, if any of you
finds a odd numbered Cobb, I'll be so astonished, I'll free you. And so this came two years later. So
I found one and the master was just like, John, the floor said, okay, please tell me how you did that.
You must have cheated. And so the slave said, okay, look, you have to promise to frame me anyway.
And then he explained that he'd gone and he'd tampered with it. And if you tamper with them very early
on to remove that one of the rows, then it'll grow in a way that that row disappears. And so the
master freed him but kept the Cobb and displayed it at dinner parties from then on. It was an amazing
anecdote that there was an odd numbered Cobb. This was entertainment in the 1830s.
Cool. Yeah, anecdotes was so terrible then. I mean, oddly, we are doing a podcast entirely based
on the fact that you don't get out numbered Cobb to the Cobb, sir. That's true.
A lot of the terrible anecdotes. I didn't realise how much corn is used in daily item,
like products that we use every day. So I didn't realise, for example, if you eat corn for dinner,
before you go to bed, you're cleaning your teeth again with other corn because bits of it that are
broken down are put into toothpaste. So yeah, so corn, if corn wasn't in toothpaste, it's not
obviously not for all toothpaste, but if it wasn't in there, it wouldn't have that sort of
Swedish taste. It would taste more like soap. So they use it as a flavouring. So it's from the
Sobittle, which is a glucose derivative of the corn. So yeah, we're cleaning our teeth with
corn as we go to bed. That's very interesting. Yeah, not all of the corn is necessarily sweet
corn, right? I think. So in America, sweet corn that you would think of as corn on the Cobb stuff,
it accounts for only 1% of all the corn grown in America. Wow. And the rest of it is stuff like
field corn and all that kind of stuff is used in industry. Perhaps for this, I'm not sure which one
is used for toothpaste, but to feed animals and things like that. It's unbelievable. So there was
a great article on the Atlantic website, which was about a woman actually called Christine Robinson,
who is severely allergic to corn. She had no idea what she was getting into when she got this
allergy. She thought, oh, well, I'm ever able to have corn on the Cobb or, you know, tacos made
of corn. It turns out everything has corn in the USA. So table salt has corn derivatives sort of
put in it. It's tea bottled water, sometimes have minerals, which is processed because you can't have
bottled water. Supermarket meat, bagged salad, fish, grains, fruits, tomatoes, milk, all of these
things are sprayed with lactic acid, which is made from corn sugars. If she's traveling, she can't
wear a wetsuit unless she knows that it hasn't been washed in a detergent that does not contain corn.
She said she loved the yogurt. She said she can't dive if her partners on the diving trip have been
eating corn chips. I mean, it sounds like the most I've got. I know. I mean, if you went to a diving
place and they said, here's your wetsuit and you said, excuse me, he's got an e-card on this,
they just think you're insane. I know. I know. It's in everything. Wow. It's astonishing poor
woman. Jeez, I'm not the way you said she had no idea what she was getting into is though. She sort
of looked so unfair. I know it's so unfair. I misspoke there. There's a corn belt in America,
you can drive for 1,500 miles and only see corn. She must hate that. Yeah, I don't think she goes there
very much. That's the great American bottom, isn't it? That's why it's called where most of the
corn is grown in America. That's funny. It's the floodplain of the Mississippi and basically,
there was glaciers there and they all retreated and it was a great vast bit of extremely
fertile land and it's known as the Great American Bottom. And is that name related to the fact that
sweet corn comes out of your bottom still intact? It can be amazing looking. I mean, it can be so
beautiful, can't it? It's a shame it's disgusting, but they're... Well, it's great. I'm going to defend
corn here, by the way. I love corn. Look, you're wrong, but that's okay. Don't feel bad. But I do
like some of the non-yellow variety. God, you're an easy one to beat in an army. One meal to zonsky.
So sweet corn can come in loads of different colours and lots of varieties. It's a bit like we were
talking about different types of pear a couple of weeks ago, but corn you can get in a bloody
butcher variety, shaman's blue, the country gentleman, and the best variety is this one called
glass gem corn. Look it up. It was originally bred by this old man, this 80-year-old man who's half
Cherokee and he wanted to get in touch with his Native American roots and it was extremely important
to Native Americans. And so he started growing lots of different varieties of corn, experimenting
and crossbreeding them. And he bred this glass gem corn and it's rainbow corn. If you guys
seen this, it's every little bit of corn. It's a different colour and it's bright red, purple, green,
blue, yellow, orange, it's absolutely stunning. Not very edible, but it's... That's the problem.
I was wondering why we haven't seen that in Tesco's. Yeah, it's the edible thing, but it looks great.
Okay, you know the movie Interstellar? Yeah. Christopher Nolan movie, that cost 165 million
dollars to make and to help pay back that money, Christopher Nolan's sold corn.
How much did he sell? I haven't got the exact number, but if you've seen the movie,
you know that it's largely set in a cornfield. There's huge scenes of cornfield and rather than
doing that by CGI, Christopher Nolan consulted with Superman director Zack Snyder, who'd also grown
corn for his movie to say where's the best place to grow corn for your own movie? So he's spent
£100,000 by finding a location in Calgary in Canada, which was next to a mountain range,
and they grew the cornfields from scratch for the movie. Wow. And they were told by the time they
filmed it that the corn wouldn't be usable, but it turned out it was. So Christopher Nolan sold off
all the corn to help pay back his movie. Imagine if you're at your local vegetable market and you had
Christopher Nolan trying to flog you some sweet corn. It would be very surreal, except I don't
know. You'd recognise him actually, so maybe it wouldn't. He would have to tell everyone he was
Christopher Nolan every time. And you wouldn't believe him, would you? No, most people would say who's
Christopher Nolan for a start? Yeah. You go home and say, this weird sweet corn dealer kept trying
to tell me his name today. You would think that someone who worked in such a high profile job to
begin with would go into purgrowing, not into sweet corn manufacturing. Is that a call back to last
week? Can we pause or quickly listen to last week's episode? Do you know that today's sweet corn is
1000 times larger than it was 9,000 years ago? Wow. That's quite a lot bigger, isn't it? 1000 times.
You mean the individual pieces or the cobs? The whole thing. But I think the individual pieces would
be a lot smaller as well. Maybe not 1000 times because they would be invisible to me. I think they
used to be two centimetres long, the cobs. And then so I didn't find that fact, James, but I did find
that farmers started to selectively growing it. And it was, you know, a very early plant to be
domesticated. But according to the source I wrote, within 6000 years, the farmers have got it from
two centimetres long, a cob, to 2.5 centimetres long. Slow rate of return. How long did you say that was?
6000 years. Do you think like after 6000 years, you must think to yourself, it might not be worth
carrying out. But that's only because we know where it's got to these days. Back then that might
have looked freakishly large, but it might have been like, whoa! In his world records, get over here.
But how did they, so invisible, how do you pass on the wisdom that you have to keep breeding it?
Because if you're talking to your granddad and he's saying, look, your cob, look at it, that is half a
millimetre bigger than mine. You're very lucky. I can't believe they bothered. You wouldn't notice.
You wouldn't like to just look at a corner of the cob and go, well, this is one tenth of a millimetre
bigger than normal. And then plant it, would you? I can't account for it. I honestly, I have no
work in this show of this fact. Native Americans used to worship corn mother, because corn was so
important to them. And she was very interesting. So the myth of corn mother was that she would feed
hungry tribes with corn. And there are various stories about how she came into being and what
people did with her. One of them is that she fed a hungry tribe with corn and saved them all,
but suddenly one of them realized how she was doing it. And the way she did it was she rubbed her
body really, really hard until her skin crumbled off and became sweet corn. And they were so grossed
out by that, that they sent her away. Or I think in some versions, they killed her. And she was so
nice that they said, we're going to kill you, because that's really rank what you're doing.
And she said, okay, but here are special instructions for how to leave my corpse to make sure it
keeps growing corn for you guys. Wow. Wow. Self-sacrificed women. And another one, she gave them all corn,
but then one of the members of the tribe had sex with an ear of corn that looked a lot like a
vulva. And she was so offended that she ran away. She loves me not. Corn on the knob more like.
Actually, it was that joke that offended her and then she ran away.
Okay, it is time for fact number two and that is Anna. My fact this week is that
Mayan gods include flying scab gathered blood and past demon. They've actually got a lot of gods
and about 800, I think, but these are some of the best. These are their underworld gods. So
I should be clear, these aren't sort of good guys. These are the guys in the underworld who represent
things like disease and death. They're the bad guys. They don't sound like good guys. They don't,
it's quite obvious from the names, isn't it? I think so. Yeah. Well, you'll need a hell of a job for a PR
person, isn't it? When you're killed, the flight scab passed demon. These are mostly Mayan gods that
were worships when the Mayan Empire was at its height, which I think it's sort of solid to
collapse and disintegrate around the 10th, 11th century, but there are still Mayans alive today.
There are about 6 million or 7 million Mayans in Central America. And they believe in these gods.
And I really like the story of these particular ones because they're involved in the creation
story of Mayan mythology whereby there were these twins, these hero twins and who had their
own weird creation story, actually, where they were born because a decapitated head spat on
their mother and impregnated her. Anyway, they ended up... There were so many different ways
of getting pregnant in the old days, weren't they? It was like sex education classes must have been
really. If a swamp comes to you, watch out. I like going to get IVF and hear all the options.
Coming through the magazine. What would you go for? I don't think you'd pick the decapitated
headspit. I think that's one of the cheaper ones. Anyway, so these hero twins went to the underworld
and they took on the gods and tried to defeat the gods of death and disease and they were also
things like jaundice demon and bloody teeth. And this is all written down in the holy book which is
called Popul Vu and has been passed down. But yeah, they beat these gods. They probably beat these gods
by playing lots of ball games with them, which is why then in Mesoamerica, ball games were such a big
important part of their lives. Anyway, the twins beat the underworld gods and then the twins became
the sun and the moon and the world was born and everything was fine. Oh, that is a good story.
Happy ending. They worked in pairs, right? These actual gods as well. So it's not just the twins
who came down, but you would always, so you'd have them working to do a specific thing. So flying
scabbing, gathering blood were two that worked together who would sicken people's blood. So I'm
guessing sepsis kind of stuff. Pust demon and jaundice demon would cause bodies to swell up,
bone staff and skull staff turned dead bodies into skeletons, sweeping demon and stabbing demon,
hide in the unswept areas of people's houses and stab them to death. That's a quite a specific one.
If you're sorry, if your house is so unswept that can conceal a big enough demon to stab you to death,
I almost think you deserve to die for bad housekeeping. But I think these gods were in some ways
metaphors for overcoming illness and death. And I wonder if there's a slight hygiene message in
sweeping demon and stabbing demon. I don't know, but this was all oral tradition until the 16th
century when it was first written down. So there might be some, some, some... Yeah, think it must be,
right? It must be like people telling their kids you better sweep the corners properly, otherwise
you're going to get stabbed to death. That's what my mum always told me. Yeah, I now look in the
corners every night six times. What happens though if you're away on holiday? You come back. There's
a big lot of dust in the corner. Who are you sending in to deal with that? Who's the least favourite
kid in the family? Sorry, Dan. I feel like you had a last pair. I did. They're called Wing and Packstrap.
So not great names. You know, you had a really strong theme going and then packstrap. Do you know
anything about them? They cause people to die coughing up blood while they're out walking on a road.
Oh, so what's the public health message there? Don't leave your house. Yeah, don't leave your house.
One famous thing about the Mayans is that they predicted the world was going to end in 2012.
Supposedly. Oh, that's what a lot of people thought, right? So this is the fact that the Mayan
calendar has a thing called a backton, which is 20 cycles of their calendar and it's equal to
394 years. And there had been 13 of them since the start of the calendar, the particular calendar,
and we were getting to the end of that cycle. Okay, because after 13, they would start again. And so
people thought that, oh, oh, that means the world's going to end because previous times that that
had happened, the world had ended according to Mayan mythology. But we only have one text which
refers to the end of that backton, which was in 2012. And it said that it will be the display of
Bollen Yachtay. That's what would happen on the 21st of December 2012. And we all remember that,
right? Well, I looked into Bollen Yachtay. I looked into him. And we don't really know much about him.
We don't really know who he is. It seems like he might be the god of the nine steps.
And so what I thought it might be referring to is on the date of the end of the world,
that was the day that Gangnam style by Sai was the first video to reach 1 billion views on YouTube.
So that is going from 999,999 up to a billion. So that's like the nine steps, if you get what I mean.
And this is the great, the great display of the god of nine steps was clicking up from 9999999 to 1 billion.
So I think that might have been what they were predicting the Mayans.
You have blown this wide open. The length you're going through to prove the Mayans right.
There was a lot of a lot of people did genuinely get concerned that they were correct in their
prediction in the lead up to 2012. So there was an Ipsos poll, which is a sort of global
poll-taking company. And they they've pulled 16,000 adults in 21 countries.
They found that 8% of them had an anxiety or fear over the fact that it was going to be true,
that it was going to end. And in one case, one sort of quite highly publicized case, two reality
stars who were together, Heidi Montag and Spencer Pratt, who were from the hills in America.
So that was a massive reality TV show pack in the day. They got so rich off the back of subsequent
things that they managed to do from their publicity on that show that they wrapped up 10 million
American dollars. But they thought the world was going to end. So they spent it all before it got
to 2012. What did they spend it on? Do we know? Yeah, it's random stuff. So they just started
leading a very extravagant lifestyle. So he said, "I would give my friends $15,000 for their birthday,
just cash. I would buy people cars." Every valet I met, I gave them a couple of hundred pounds tip.
I would pay people $200 just to open doors for us. And yeah, so he said, "Here's some advice.
Definitely do not spend your money thinking asteroids are coming. The world did not end."
So they lost their... Thanks mate, valuable advice. How ironic that two reality stars had not a single
grip on reality whatsoever. Okay, and it's time for fact number three, and that is Andy.
My fact is that in pre-industrial Sweden, some people used slugs as grease to lubricate their
card wheels. So this is all based on a paper that was published in the Journal of Ethnobiology,
and it's titled Black Slugs as grease. And it was quite a recent paper to describe this old custom
that goes back to the 18th century. It was known to go back at least to then, sure it goes back further.
It's by Ingvars Fanberg from Uppsala University. And people would sometimes use other methods.
They would use tar. They would mix in lard from swine or fat from boiled animals' feet. So none of
these methods of lubricating your card axles are especially nice sounding, but sometimes you would
not have those things available, and you would need to cast around and pick up a slug. And some
wagons actually had a slug tub hanging behind them. If you just put it up in a slug, shove another
slug on the wheel. Is that what they do? Yeah, basically, and you just, it's poor slug. You just have
to mash it up, basically, because they're so slimy that they produce excellent lubrication between the
wheels and the axles. Right, yeah. So they did mash them up, because I thought they could do it where
they just put a slug on a wheel and they leave it to crawl around the whole wheel. Absolutely.
That's a really good sustainable way of doing it, isn't it? Pop it back in the tub.
Yeah, you're right. No, I wish that would be the children's book version of this story, Anna.
This paper was a way of trying to use popular ethnology, because they put out an appeal on
radio to say, have you ever heard of this? Have you done it? And it turns out it was done into the
1940s. And people listen to this radio show in Sweden. Wow. They found it. Yeah. And all over Northern
Europe as well, including, including, including Colchester in Essex. No, yeah. There was someone who
wrote him from Colchester and said that in the 1970s, children who lived near a railway line would
go to the railway line and gather slugs and sell them to the workforce on the trains. So they had
something to lubricate the wheels. That's right. It's in this paper. That's the workforce being
kind to the kids. That's the workforce going, oh, yeah, that's so helpful. Thanks so much.
Then using their industrial lubricant. Apparently, yeah. Apparently, there was a rumour in Denmark
that German glass blowers would use black slugs to smear on their frame pans when they made pancakes
instead of using oil. Is that a sick burn on the German glass blowers? It's hard to tell, isn't it?
Cheap. Yeah. They said that they use badger lard or bacon rind or they used slugs if they couldn't
get any of those. Badger lard. I mean, badger lard does send harder to get hold of than a slug.
Doesn't look like it could appear in a high quality restaurant now. I can really imagine it being
a Michelin London restaurant with pancakes with badger lard and slug slime. There were some places,
oh, it's Nordic countries as well. Actually, children would sing rhymes to slugs.
Does that help them produce more slime? I don't think so. I can't remember what
I can't remember. Can we hear one of the rhymes? Something else? No, I've forgotten it and I'm
definitely not going to look it up. You forgot it when you committed it to memory.
At some point. Shall I tell you? Shall I do it? I'm certain my pronunciation will be terrible,
but this is just reading it as it looks. So, sniggle sniggle snorey. Rack ut dinala mga horn.
Sakadufa en skapa corn. Hem till dina unga, unga i but. And that means snail, snail,
snott. Reach out your longhorns and you will receive a bushel of barley to take home to your kids,
your kids in the nest. Ah, that's lovely, isn't it? So then they'd give this snail a bushel of barley.
I think it was just nursery rhyme. The extra detail at the end, the kids in the nest,
so you give it to your kids, the kids in the nest. So sort of, I know where you live,
kind of statement. Wow, I didn't think it was quite that worried. It feels aggressive to me.
Dislugs make nests. I don't think these children know what's going on.
So many holes in these rhyme.
Slugs are very right-hand side centric. So all the shit that's really important to them,
in fact, is on the right-hand side. They've got their breathing hole, which is the new mistone,
which if you look at a slug, you can see it. So cool. It's just like a big gaping,
well, it looks like a wound in their head, which is what they breathe through. But they also have
their genitals, I think. Their anus and their genitals are towards the front of their body,
because they evolved from snails and snails have to have all of that stuff at the front,
because if it stuck in their shell, you're just pouring in your own shell. So they've got their
anus and their genitals at the front, all on the right-hand side as well. But I think that would be
a really exciting plot point, everything being on the right-hand side thing. If you had, let's say,
a slug hospital drama, and you've got this slug spouse turning up, and the doctor slug says,
I'm so sorry, Mrs. Slug, one half of your husband's body was completely obliterated by the accident
with a cart. And then which half was obliterated? The left half. Oh, well, that's fine. And then,
you know, there's definitely that. Which half, and then the credits rule? I love it.
I know, though, surely there must be some use to the other half of the slug. Otherwise,
all slugs would evolve into being half a slug. That's true. That's absolutely right. Well, maybe
they're on the way there. You know, in a million years' time, slugs will only be half a slug.
And everyone will always say, I wonder where the other half is. You know, some slugs eat birds.
No. Nature's reversed itself. They're eating birds. It's actually a bit of a problem. I think
researchers in Poland were the first ones to discover this. And they looked in birds' nests where
there are little chicks being nestlings. And they saw a slug there. They were like, no worries,
just a slug. The mum will probably eat it. Came back a few days later. And the birds had been eaten.
And it turns out that slugs will nore away at little chicks in nests. And the mothers don't
even stop them from doing it. Because, well, we think they haven't really evolved this defense
mechanism yet. Because it doesn't happen often enough that they've evolved. So they just watch
these slugs nore away using their regular, which is their tongue, which is covered in little teeth.
And they eat the little birds alive. Wow. I have to say, the fact that it doesn't happen very
often is not an excuse for the bird mum. I would say if that happened once, that requires
intervention. I agree. I think that's evolution going wrong. If you don't automatically know,
if you see a slug eating your baby, you should stop it happening. Why I think it's quite interesting
is that this nursery rhyme said, "Bushler Valley, to take home to your kids, kids in the nest." It doesn't
say kids in your nest. So maybe these children in Denmark, they knew about this kind of behavior of
slugs. Oh my god, James. This is like the time you proved the minds right earlier this episode.
Amazing. So slugs use for lubricants. Lots of other things have been used for lubricants in the past,
haven't they? Seaweed used by people in Japan for thousands of years. If you get red seaweed and
boil it up, it gives you this liquid called Karajinan. And it's extremely gelatinous and slippery,
and it's been used as lubricant forever. James, are you talking about tribology here?
Am I? I think you are. So tribology is the science of friction and lubrication.
And it is such a recent science that it was only named in 1966. Wow. But it covers basically
everything. Everything you can imagine, all mechanical processes have friction and lubrication
elements in them. So there's geotribology, which is about tectonic plates and glaciers.
There's nanotribology, which is in computer disk storage. There's biotribology, which is hip joints
and how they work and now replacement hips can stay working for longer or everything. And we met
a tribologist when we were in Vienna. You know what? I was just about to ask that. Was he not the guy
who said he coined the word tribology? Well, I've come across different accounts of who coined it.
I've heard that a guy called Peter Jost also did, but we met Friedrich Franek, who is a senior
tribologist in Vienna. And he was great. Yeah, kept slipping over, didn't he?
Yeah, but his card, his card outside was so well-oiled.
That's amazing. Well, I believe him. He's our friend. Yeah. Yeah, let's go with him.
All right. I think that's how the royalty works. I was reading about nose grease.
Oh, yeah. Do you know about this? No. So the the oiliest and greasiest bit on the human body
is the little bit that's connected between the nose and the face. And it's got so many uses,
observatories with telescopes would use it to sort of minimize the scratches on the surfaces
of the telescope. It would be really effective for that. And if you ever have a beer,
this is just for a tip. Next time you have a pint of beer, if the head of the beer is too much,
you can take your nose grease and you can stir it into the head and it will make it will dissipate.
I'll be trying that really quickly, not yet, because I read it this morning and I thought it might be.
So we read once on QI that if you take earwax and put it into beer, then that will also make the
bubbles go away. And we were going to do it on the show, but no one thought to try it. And then on
the day of recording, we actually got some beer and we thought in rehearsal, let's just quickly
try it to make sure it works and it really did not work. Just ended up with bubbly earwax
seabere. Oh well, Dan, I can't wait to go out for a nice pint all of us when this is all over
and just see you rubbing your nose and your glass. I'm not going to put my actual nose in the glass.
White cut out the middle man of the figure. I don't think we produce enough grease, do we?
We're all stroking this bit of our nose. I can see you're all doing the same as me.
So this is the bit of your nose. Dan, when you said between the nose and the face, I thought you
meant on the inside. I couldn't work out what you meant, but you mean the outer bit below your eyes.
I think it's specifically the bit between like, let's say your cheeks and your nostrils,
like that little indentation. The side bit of your nose. Yeah, those are greasy bits.
Yeah, it's very soft actually. I'd never noticed before, but it is quite soft, but I still don't
think it is enough to be stirring usefully into anything for culinary purposes. I think if you've
got a telescope and a tiny little aperture, then I can see it might be useful for that.
But if you're going to do it for a pint, you're probably going to have to go around the whole pub
getting bittersy at everyone's nose. I can only see if you anything.
By coincidence, I have these two things next to me. This is really a coincidence, but I could
test out. Oh, you could test it. Dan has a beer and a glass. There's no way we're not going to demand
people to say that. It's zero alcohol though, so I don't know if that might not produce a head.
Get my nose. Okay, so here's the beer. I'm just pour it in. Here's my nose.
This all stacks up so far. Wow, look at it dissolving immediately. Look at that. Oh, look at
that. It is disappearing. This is a good tip. If you're a barman and you ever pour a bad point,
just get some grease off your face, dip your finger in. Look at that. Okay, that actually,
that is quite impressive. Now we do need to see it with a control where you're not using the grease.
Maybe next week. Yes, next week's party. Tune in. Cool. That was good. Nice. Yeah, well done.
Good experiment. Well driven. I've got one more facts if we have time for one more on this one.
So I just read a story that happened in 2002 about a case of grease causing a lawsuit. So a man
sued a pub for slipping on pork chop grease. His name was Troy Bowrin and the story says a man who
slipped on a trail of grease left on a pub floor by a patron wearing pork chops on his feet was
awarded more than 23,000 pounds yesterday by an Australian court. So many questions. Yep,
Troy Bowrin. He broke his arm. He was at the Janallian in South Sydney and this was back in 1997
that the incident actually happened. And basically what happened was another guy there called Ross
Lukeock had won the meat, the pork chops in a raffle and a pub raffle. But then the pub refused
him service at the bar because he was barefoot. So he returned a short time later with the chops
strapped to his feet and walked around everywhere, even playing pool in the pub. And
poor old Troy Bowrin was then walking along and they hand cleaned away the grease left behind
and slipped on it and successfully sued both the pub and the man wearing the pork chops on his
feet. And this guy was Australian. He said, wow.
Okay, it's time for our final fact of the show and that is my fact. My fact is in 2019,
69 pilgrims made a journey from the Surn Abbas giant, which is that nude chalk man that's carved
into the hillside in England to Surn in Geneva or as they put it from the large hard on to the large
Hadron. So this was a pilgrimage that happened April last year. 69 pilgrims got on a double
decker bus after starting a sort of pagan druid style ritual at the Surn Abbas giant. They went
through Italy and stayed in a place called Damanher which is a community that's up there and then
they went through to Switzerland where they ended up at the Surn large Hadron collider and they
performed another bizarre pagan ritual there. They wanted to immunize the Eschaton which is the
idea is that they wanted to bring the beauty of the afterworld into the current world. So heaven
basically brought into world. That was all very interesting down but the main bit I got from that is
that they went from England to Geneva and went through Italy. That's not it's not on the way.
There sounds like more of a jolly than a pilgrimage. I think your rice most pilgrimages are not on a
double decker bus either. But yeah so and this was done by someone called Daisy Campbell and it was
told to me by a friend of fish, Dr David Bramwell who is a author and he was actually part of the
group of 69 pilgrims except that he didn't go with them but he was one of the 69 he was at the
Surn giant. So we know that not all of them were there? Yeah I'm guessing so. 69 feels like
as a crucial number though. Was that just happy coincidence? No intentional. I guess you're right
maybe he was number 70 and I'm pretty sure that he said he was 69. Yeah if he's number 70 it ruins
the joke so yeah can't go. We should say they were doing it for a joke right so they are quite
funny and when you read the write-up it's obviously a very humorous thing they're doing this pagan
thing. Yes. And they call themselves discordians which is a sort of faux pseudo religion started in
the 60s and it's sort of based around chaos and chaos isn't important as order and stuff like that
right? Absolutely yeah and but they are a lot of people who are druids do it and they do they do buy
into a lot of magic and folk but yes it's all done with a great tongue and cheekness about it.
Can we just quickly mention this place that they visited in Italy because it's incredible
I'd never heard of this damn in her but I don't know. Drumwell's been there before hasn't he?
Yes he has yeah many times. I want to go. It's an extraordinary place it's a it's a community that was
set up by this one guy who claimed that he was the pre-incarnation of an alien from the future so
the idea is that there was a panel of aliens talking in the future about the destruction of planet
earth and they pinpointed it to the fact that earth lost its way in life and became a very negative
place and destroyed itself so he thought I'm going to stop that yeah James. It's just Andy's looking
quite skeptical about this story. Yeah a little bit. Wait till wait till you hear where it goes Andy.
So he pre-incarnated by thousands of thousands of years and landed himself in the Italian hills
and he set up this community and they decided under the cover of darkness to build a temple
to time travel that would help save humanity using just their hands largely to begin with and then
eventually drills and to look at pictures of it highly recommended look at damn in her it's one
of those beautiful things you'll ever see it's stunning. So this is aside from that is obviously just
a bunch of crazy people but these temples are unbelievable and they kept it secret for 15 years
didn't they so this little community in Italy digging a hundred feet underground under a mountain
and it was only in 1992 when someone reported them to the police and the police went and to be
fed the police the police said oh you've made some really really nice huge temples inside a mountain
good on you let's open it up to the public. I'm just thinking that when they were digging into this
mountain in northern Italy did they not come across a hundred thousand apples that are in there.
Just as one bar call back to last week. Yeah.
So they pitched up there they they saw the temples and then they went on to Surn and to yeah.
I don't understand anything that's been said in the last five minutes.
Well let's talk about the chalk avistrylam. So the Surn Abistrian we should say is a 180-foot
tall naked man with a club and he has an absolutely enormous penis. Yes. Yes is that fair to say.
Didn't always used to be as big. No that was I know this is the crazy thing this is the
sort of area 51 of Britain is this chalk giant penis which used to be tiny. No it used to be normal
sized. It was normal 12-foot long penis. It was 16 feet long which is a normal size for a giant
that size. So basically he was like he was 200 feet tall and he had a 200 inch penis so it's the
same as a six or tall man having a six inch penis so it's you know it's a completely normal size
but then in 1908 chalk cutters merged his penis with his belly button and made it seven feet longer
which now makes it look completely out of proportion. Now if that wasn't a chalk got a trying
to compensate for something I don't know why the phrase compensating for something was ever
invented. Do you know who found out about this disturbance because it's it's been described to
a few different people some people say it was down on the 50s by contractors and other but you know
blah blah blah or locals did it but Rodney Kassadin is a kind of freelance archaeologist and he
developed a system of working out where the soil had been disturbed and he said I've made a trial
run down the phallus and obtained electrical measurements indicating a joint so he worked out
that that the penis had definitely been extended to the former belly button and then the national
trust who owned the site they had to decide whether to give the certain abyss giant a penis a penis
ectomy penis trim reduction cut reduck a penis thank you a penis reduction and they decided not to do
it I guess because it's been a hundred years since it was extended and it must be that's now what
it's like but it and also because of the adverse PR that it would have created I think for them yeah
like squatters rights at that point yeah they do top it up every 25 years or so give it a sort of
makeover and it's 17,000 tons of chalk that's used I'm not 17 what am I talking about yeah sorry
it's 17 tons of chalk that is used 17,000 very sorry um what a penis that would be
the white cliffs of dover are no more yeah every 25 years except for when there's problems so they
had to give him a nose job at one point because erosion had been too unkind on him so they maybe he
was just trying to defone the beer did you read down did you read the report of the last the last job
they did because they it's volunteers who do it so it's you know there are dozens of people who go and
they they trim the grass verges because obviously it's cut into a chalk hillside and they interviewed
the national trust man because some chalk figures have now been redone in concrete which is obviously
easier but actually obviously it's not very historical and it's a bit it's a bit lazy and the
national trust man um called Martin Papworth said I think there would be an outcry if we tried to cut
corners says Papworth who ironically is here to help cut the corners yeah so we don't fully know
when this was made right we yeah I always assume this was quite ancient but there's a lot of
suggestion that it's dates from the 17th century because that's the first mention that we get of
it and a lot of theories about why it came about one is that it was a sort of satirical piece on
Oliver Cromwell and they believe that there were missing bits from it there used to be a dismembered
head at the bottom and a cloak in the other arm that's not holding the club but no one truly knows
because a lot of sources do claim that it's older don't they there was an article in the independent
that casually referred to it as 2000 years old but it seems impossible that this thing would have
existed for 1,500 years and no one mentioned it until the 1694 that's what I mean surely
someone would have written down at some point by the way we've got this massive naked man on a hill
there's a land survey in 1617 that talks about this hill and doesn't mention the massive naked man
and it just seems like if you were to buy a house and the survey came back and it didn't
mention there was a massive naked man on the side of your house you would complain wouldn't you
yeah you would you would there is one theory I've heard and I like this so much so the people of
Dorset were interviewed about it in the 18th century and this was a I think a local reverend who
is a bit of an amateur historian taking this record from the locals and the people there at the time
said that it represented a giant who had stolen sheep from the people living nearby
for his own food and then he'd lain down to rest in this field and the villagers had killed
the giant in his sleep and then they'd put an outline around him meaning that the chalk giant
would be a literal crime scene chalk I don't know these names draw in pop shows
when you have a murder and you see the chalk line on the floor they don't put the penis in there
so we have a log of us today final indignity that's brilliant it has been covered up for other
reasons in the past so in the 19th century classic Victorians they apparently they let foliage
grow discreetly over the penis so you couldn't see the penis in the Victorian age and then in the war
we covered up the certain giant and all of our other chalk hillsides I think which if you were
listening from a broad you should know that England is the south of England specifically just has
this weird habit of drawing massive chalk figures on hills and then come world war two we had to
sort of like paint a lot of them green or cover a lot of them and grass and stuff because they're
quite obvious from the sky you didn't want the German bombers to be able to use them as an
navigation like following the directs of the penis bristle this way okay that's it that is all
of our facts thank you so much for listening if you would like to get in contact with any of us
about the things that we have said over the course of this show you can find us on our Twitter
accounts I'm on at Shriberland James at James Harkin Andy at Andrew Hunter and Anna you can email
podcast at qi.com yeah but you can go to our group account which is at no such thing or you can go
to our website no such things a fish dot com check out all the stuff up there we've got all of our
previous episodes and links to certain items of merchandise that we've re-released and yeah guys
we do as we say always hope you're staying safe do stay at home still we'll get through it it's not
ended yet we don't know when it will end but we're saving lives by not leaving the house so hope
you're family and you and your friends are well and we'll see you again next week for another
episode goodbye.
[MUSIC]